now un Secretary General Antonio gues
has used his most powerful diplomatic
tool known as article 99 to try and stop
Israel's killing of Palestinians in Gaza
he's directing the security Council to
discuss the quote humanitarian
catastrophe and is calling for an
urgencies
fire it is a very powerful move on
behalf of the Secretary General and we
hope that members of the security
Council will be moved by it and we hope
the International Community will be
moved by it to uh to push and put in
place a humanitarian
ceasefire in response Israel accused the
UN chief of bias against Israel saying a
ceasefire would only embolden
Hamas a comment now on un Secretary
General Antonio gutter's Kafkaesque step
to invoke article 99 of the UN Charter
the Hamas October 7th Massacre was a
threat to International Peace and
security calls for a permanent ceasefire
that would leave our hostages in Gaza
and the Hamas Terror regime in power are
also a threat to International Peace and
security Israel's efforts to dismantle
the Hamas Terror organization in
response to the October 7th Massacre are
designed to uphold and restore
International Peace and
security well let's go to Imran Khan
who's in Tel Aviv for us now Imran and
you know a pretty contemptuous really
response that to uh the best efforts of
the un's Secretary General and that's
pretty much the same response Israel has
given to all shows of of of pressure by
countries around the
world that's absolutely right it's
always been the same Playbook condemn uh
the United Nations accuse them of bias
anti-israeli bias on occasion accuse
them of being anti-semitic it's been
followed up actually by comments from
the foreign minister Eli Cohen who says
Garis actions constitute support of the
Hamas terrorist organization
he goes on to say anyone who supports
World Peace must support the liberation
of Gaza from Hamas the Israeli
ambassador to the UN Gillard Eran also
said the UN needs a Secretary General
who supports the war on terror and not a
Secretary General who acts according to
the script written by Hamas now uh
that's the reaction from here but
article 99 is about calling uh for a
humanitarian ceasefire Israel couldn't
even agree on getting in fuel into the
strip humanitarian Aid into the strip
there was a fraud security coun cabinet
meeting last night where there was
intense disagreement eventually they did
agree but not the amount of fuel that
the US wants to get in and nowhere near
the amount of fuel the Palestinians need
in Gaza Israel is very bluntly not in
the mood for any kind of compromise
right now and we keep hearing that so
how far this ceas calls for ceasefire go
within the UN it needs a Buy in from the
United States and that's simply not
happening right
now Imran Khan with the latest from Tel
Aviv thanks Imran